# Data-Science-Principles-and-Practices

This project explores Maximum Likelihood Inference, Classification and Validation concepts. We look at 2 different datasets, the first is based off of 
‘Quiet Flows the Don’ which was a book written by Russian novelist Mikhai Sholokhov, who was awarded the Nobel prize for literature in 1965. However there was 
some controversy about the authorship of the novel, with some claiming it had actually been written by another author. To investigate this, a statistical analysis of the text 
in the book was performed, considering the distribution of sentence lengths in the book. The first step of the statistical analysis is to fit a probability distribution to 
these sentence lengths.

The second dataset is the ATLAS Data Set. The ATLAS experiment at the large hadron collider observes and takes measurements of particle collision events. 
The data contains simulated data that models a combination of background events, and signal (“Higgs to tautau”) events generated by a simulation of the ATLAS detector at CERN. 
The aim of this task is to train and validate models to classify events into either the background or signal class. This dataset was originally produced as part of an open 
machine learning challenge to develop methods for detecting Higgs bosons from data generated by the ATLAS detector. You can read more about ATLAS here: https://atlas.cern. Each 
event belongs to one of two classes, either background or signal, and has several associated measurements that can be used to predict the type of an event. Each row in the data 
file corresponds to an individual event, with columns for each of the measurements. For each event, several measurements from the ATLAS detector are provided, and these can be 
used to predict the class of the event. The measurements are all continuous variables, and can be assumed to follow a Gaussian distribution after scaling and normalisation.
